>> Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 378,
recorded April 9th, 2024.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> I'm Brian Aukin.
>> You can follow us over on Mastodon.
We're all on Fossodon, @brianaukin,
@mkennedy, and @pythonbytes.
We'd love to talk to you over there.
We're also on X Twitter,
if you want to be there as well,
but we probably spend a little more time on Mastodon these days.
Support the show by supporting our work.
We have obviously a bunch of courses that Talk Python Training,
Brian's complete pytest course,
and the Patreon as well.
Be part of the live show if you wish.
You can see the video version.
Absolutely not required,
but always awesome to have people in the audience to give it
a little bit more of multiple perspectives.
We'll get some of that coming on in a second.
You can check that out at pythonbytes.fm/live,
usually Tuesdays at 10 AM.
That's specific time.
Finally, if you want an artisanal handcrafted digest of what we talk about,
sent you an e-mail form,
even if you don't listen,
well, head over to the website pythonbytes.fm,
click "Newsletter" right in the middle and enter your e-mail address.
We will not share it or do other nefarious things.
We just want to be able to contact you and have a chat if you wish.
Well, Brian will be sending out something cool to everyone this week as usual.
Brian, do you have health news or something you got to share?
What's going on here, man?
>> Well, I've found a pacemaker.
>> Okay.
>> My ticker is doing good.
No problems with that.
But you can control your heart with Python.
>> Okay.
>> Actually, you can't control your heart yet.
Actually, I don't know if you can.
But I ran across a project from Brandon Rohr called Pacemaker.
What this does, it's not controlling your heart,
it's controlling time per iteration loop.
I don't know if this has anything to do with UV or not,
but one of the things that UV has brought us is
really fast installing of lots of packages if you have a lot.
Why not? This is a small package.
This is in Brandon's own words on the read me.
I think I saw this here.
It is essentially, it's a glorified snippet.
Instead of a snippet, he wrote a package, which I love this.
I'm taking a look at it.
It's a small package.
Good example though for how to do a package.
If you take a look at the pyproject.toml,
it's pretty concise.
It's using setup tools, which is fine.
But it shows you how easy it is to put a package together,
which is pretty fun.
Also with the code, I was taking a look at the code.
What this does is not terribly earth shattering,
but it just sticks around.
You tell it that you want to,
it's like a metronome thing.
You've got some code that you want to run,
and here's an example.
You just say pacemaker beat,
and it waits.
It's a busy wait or it does a sleep or something like that.
Yeah, sleep. But it sleeps and then comes back alive,
does its thing, and then goes back.
You can have it be,
like in this example,
like does a beat for 100 times.
This is important in a lot of different types of code,
a lot of monitoring code, a lot of other things.
Busy waits aren't necessarily always the greatest,
but in a lot of cases, it works great.
The thing that I wanted to point out about this,
there's a few things that I love about
this project or just wanted to point out.
Really great documentation even for a small project.
Also, I had forgot about time monotonic.
This is using time monotonic when it does the time comparisons.
There's a couple of times of timestamps,
types of timestamps, and monotonic,
and then there's a monotonic nanoseconds.
If you really want to do really tight loops,
you could modify it for that.
The thing that monotonic does is it makes
sure that all time deltas are positive.
Even if something happens,
like you change your system clock between timestamps,
it'll still do it correctly so that it is monotonically.
>> That's interesting.
>> Another thing could be,
even you don't change it,
but we all have our clocks set to auto.
>> Yeah.
>> Adjust, and it could come online and auto adjust or something.
>> Yeah. That would be weird if suddenly,
especially with this project where one of the things it does,
and he warns about this,
is, sleeps aren't exact science.
This isn't a real-time, especially on non-real-time operating systems,
but I don't think Python is even a real-time thing.
It's an approximation for how long it's going to sleep,
but it tries to correct it.
If you slept too long,
it tries to do more events so that on average,
you get the average amount of times you're running be correct.
It's a cool library, check it out.
A couple of things I wanted to point out about it.
One is the cool use of monotonic.
The other one is a good read-me documentation,
even for a small thing.
But there's no tests.
Brandon, come on.
Anyway, actually, there's a couple of things around this.
I don't think that people should stop from
putting a code online just because they don't have tests yet.
It might be that somebody could contribute and add tests.
It also might be that for you,
if you're using this all the time,
if Brandon uses this all the time,
the tests are covered by the calling code.
You're using this and you're covering it.
I guess I want to point out to everybody,
for any library you're using,
you probably should have tests that cover
the part of the library that you depend on,
even if they do have tests.
This one doesn't, so buyer beware.
But even if they do,
you probably should make sure that it is
really working the way you think it's working.
>> Sometimes it's just hard to have meaningful tests.
A while ago, I released that Umami Python event library,
for the analytics tracking.
All it does is serialize
the messages that come to it from the Umami API.
I can test what my perception of the API is.
But the real danger is that that API changes in some way or another.
It's just 90 percent of the fragility is outside of,
if you mock out all that stuff,
then well, you're just testing your view,
which hopefully is already mostly encoded.
It's not completely useless,
but there's certain things that are just tricky to get.
>> Right. Testing isn't necessarily always automated testing.
It could be that you're using it,
the Umami API that you're using,
it's you're using it so you'll know when it breaks.
Other things are like your use of it will break or the calling code.
I don't think that people should,
especially with the internal stuff,
maybe on PyPI, maybe we should have a little bit,
things eventually should have tests probably.
But for internal projects where you're sharing code,
it's better to package and share code than to not share code.
If writing testers is what's stopping you
from putting it in a central repository,
don't let that stop you.
It's better than just, I mean, we have snippets.
Like he said, it's a glorified snippet,
so why not package it?
>> Yeah. Very nice. I like the monotonic.
That's news to me.
I hadn't paid attention to that before.
>> Yeah. It's cool. I want to try the nanosecond monotonic.
>> Other stuff that people might want to pay attention to,
and this is not to drum up a bunch of fear and concern so much.
It's not huge news in that regard to people.
But it's more to just put out there what the PyPA,
the Python Packaging Authority folks to deal with.
Kind of say a thanks.
The news comes to us from Bleeping Computer,
which usually does pretty good news,
but this article is pretty vacuous of information.
But the title says a lot.
PyPI suspends new user registrations to block malware campaign.
There's some interesting things in here.
It basically says, look, when was this?
This is March 28th, a little bit, a couple of weeks ago.
PyPI temporarily suspended user registration in the creation of
new projects to deal with ongoing malware campaign.
Then it proceeds to tell you what PyPI is basically.
Then it says, look, there were some problems.
People are uploading bad stuff,
but it doesn't tell you, for example, what projects.
What did the malware do?
If you jump over to the status.python.org,
actually that tells you about the status of Python infrastructure,
which is cool. It says same deal.
This is the official reporting.
Did it say how long the event went for?
No, just that it was a thing.
I guess if I did math,
that would be 10 hours,
about 10 hours, 30 minutes.
That's a ways. This is the real article you want to read.
It is over on Medium PyPI is under
attack project creation and user registration.
It's been adhered to the details by Yehuda Gelb.
I hate to link to Medium.
I hate Medium. I think it's a crummy place.
I don't know, it just seems gross,
but they have really good details.
Basically, this was a typo squatting attack.
What's interesting, it was a multi-stage attack,
stealing all sorts of things,
crypto wallets, obviously.
But real sketchy is browser cookies.
You're logged into your bank for a session that's good for 20 minutes.
If they could grab that and log in as you,
that might be less good or log into your e-mail and reset stuff and so on.
What happened is there was a bunch of packages in here somewhere.
There's the package list.
You can see these are all about capturing people who, one,
misspelled things but also just didn't quite understand.
For example, one of the packages is requirements.txt,
requirements.txt without the dot or requirements.
If you say pip install requirements,
without the dash r or the dot txt, you're getting this.
There's a bunch of others,
TensorFlow and Selenium.
They're all over the requirements business, so it's just everywhere.
The deal was basically each one of these had a malicious setup.py,
which is why I think it's interesting to look at.
Inside the malicious setup.py,
it encrypted using the cryptography.fairnet library,
which just listed as a dependency, I imagine.
It then decrypts some URL that it very lightly.
It's funny, it's like using little analytics.
It'll passes the query string of which one hacked me before you get going.
They download some thing that installs and runs and
basically installs a backdoor ongoing thing.
So even if you pip uninstall this,
there's this thing running that just monitors your system,
which is not ideal to be honest.
>> That's not what you want.
>> No, one does not want this.
Henry out in the audience says,
"In addition to all the stuff I said,
that actually blocked all uploads for a few hours and
couldn't upload build 1.2.1.
What a hassle. This is why we can't have nice things. Come on now."
>> Yeah. I guess there's a lesson here to make sure that
you're careful when you pip install something because
even if you catch it and you're like,
"Oh, that's not what I meant," you may have already done damage.
Isn't there a way, I don't remember off the top of my head,
to say pip install but don't run,
only use wheels, don't allow anything to run?
>> I don't know.
>> I'm not sure. I feel like there was.
Probably some of the audience is going, "Yes, yes, of course.
How do you not know this?"
But that doesn't mean this is not going to happen.
It just means you have to use the code as opposed to
just the act of installing it or sneaking it into a requirements file somehow.
Yes, and I knew Henry would come through and say,
"--only-binary." Indeed, that's it.
>> Well, they were on top of it.
The fact that this was completely dealt with within 12 hours is pretty awesome.
The fact that it has to happen, not so much.
>> Yeah.
>> Over to you, Brian.
>> I guess the world has changed a little bit with UV and other rustified things.
We have an updated blog post from Hennick,
Python Project Local Virtual Env Management Redux.
He's just really talking about all of the tools that he uses around virtual environments.
I just enjoyed it because it matches my own use quite a bit.
Some caveats in here that says this is what works for me.
I'm not necessarily saying you have to use this, of course.
But it's a good list of how dealing with virtual environments.
The major thing that happened is UV,
and it's changed a lot of how we deal with it,
but it makes things a lot faster.
Some of the things I thought I want to revisit in here,
so it's pretty great.
He's using .venv in each project directory.
It's close to what I use.
I use the venv, I just don't use the dot.
>> I do as well, Brian.
I know the dot means it's not really important, put it to the side.
But I love to be able to open up a project in
Finder or Explorer and look at it and go,
"All right, this one has a virtual environment.
This one doesn't, I need to make one."
I don't want to have to keep like show hidden files,
hide hidden files over and over.
While I appreciate the dot,
I'm 100 percent with you.
>> Yeah. Direnv, I think I want to revisit this.
I've tried it a while ago, but I haven't tried it lately.
Is a way to have an envrc file or .envrc file in your directory,
and that gets run when you CD into it or something.
Anyway, I think this is cool stuff, but I don't use it.
Do you use this, Michael?
>> No. I love the idea of it, and in practice,
I just haven't done it now.
>> There's some cool tricks in here that he's using that
I want to get back to trying it again.
I guess thanks, Sanik, for bringing this up so I can take a look again.
Using Astral's UV over Rai,
I never went to Rai,
but it looks like he switched from Rai to UV.
Python installations, now switch to both,
just always using python.org downloads
because they're now universal builds mostly,
and it just works.
That's what I've been using also for installing Python.
Dead snakes for Linux, of course.
Then there's a mention of Python build
standalone for various other projects that are needed.
That's neat. A discussion about unpinned versus pinned packages,
and then also using a.python version default within a directory.
The tie-in back to Durenv is cool,
is he's got some tricks in here.
If you drop in a.python version default,
it tells you what version to use by default in a directory,
and then you check it in so that
the development environment can be recreated easily,
and he's got some in VRC that's part of Durenv.
That is a little snippet that will
activate it based on which Python you're using,
using UV, which is a neat little trick to use
Durenv and Python versions and UV altogether.
I'll definitely have to try that.
That's a neat trick.
>> That's neat.
>> Using all of this as well helps with GitHub Actions.
He's describing how to do that as
input to the setup Python GitHub Action,
which is, I didn't know you could do this.
You can say the Python version file and you can just give it
that Python version default so
the GitHub Actions uses the right default version.
This is cool trick. He's got
some tricks on how to use it with the fish shell.
I don't use fish,
but for those fish users, that'd be great.
The other part that I really enjoyed
seeing is because of all of this,
in which version and stuff,
you can use, he's using the requires Python and PyProjectToml,
which I'm using for everything now.
But he has a way,
a little sed snippet to parse that out of
the PyProject.toml and pass it into using the GitHub Actions,
the animal file to pass it to a Docker build.
But it's grabbing this version of Python so you could use it for
other things within your GitHub Action or something else,
or other tool if you needed to pass what Python version to use.
That's some pretty clever things in here,
that I, something old,
something new, some neat tricks.
>> Yeah, very interesting.
A lot of stuff to explore.
Interesting comments in the audience about liking and disliking,
all the magic, the auto magic.
>> Well, and it's also another example of,
I like these posts,
even for different people just to see,
this is how I work,
this is the workflow I use.
Not necessarily just focusing on one tool,
but I use all these things together and this is how they work together.
It's fun to read.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
Even if you don't adopt it, it's cool to just see
the tools and the things you can do.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. On to the next one.
This one is super exciting.
We need to talk for just a second about Cloudflare and Edge Workers.
Now, this is just a Cloudflare thing,
but I think it's sufficiently interesting that it's worth calling out.
CDNs like Cloudflare, like bunny.net,
the one that we use and stuff like that,
have a bunch of what are called POPs,
points of presence.
Traditionally, these have been,
how do I get my files really close to you so they
feel immediate no matter where you are in the world?
For example, I don't know about Cloudflare's details like their stats,
but I know bunny.net has something like
115 servers that are points of presence throughout the world.
So if you visit the Python by itself website,
all the static content like images and CSS and stuff
are delivered from one of those POPs right by you.
>> Yeah.
>> Obviously, the MP3s as well.
Now, those things have started to have programmable models where in
addition to just having the content of say a static file near you,
they'll have some of the logic of the application near you.
So if you've got like a React front-end that talks to APIs,
maybe it's only talking just down the street to the point of presence,
not halfway around the world to New York where our server lives.
This has traditionally been JavaScript.
So with that set as the stage,
Cloudflare has these things called,
I think they call them web workers.
Yeah, something like that. We'll see in just a second.
Those have been traditionally done in JavaScript.
So there's a whole infrastructure about
distributed databases and things like that,
that these workers can work with. It's pretty interesting.
But the news is Cloudflare announces,
they're bringing Python to these workers with Pyodide and WebAssembly.
So now you can start to program these edge devices,
these points of present things like right near each other with first-class Python support,
based on all the work of Pyodide and WebAssembly and all those things.
Isn't that excellent?
>> It is excellent.
>> This is a big announcement. I got the Omnivore page pulled up,
and the read time is 16 minutes.
We're not going to go through all that.
So let me just pull out some highlights here.
So one of the things that's really made this possible,
made interesting is they've put a huge amount of effort into
optimizing the runtime for JavaScript to make it work well.
It's Pyodide's integration with JavaScript for
that runtime performance implementation side to make this work really well.
So it says, "Beyond just compile to WebAssembly."
Each worker is what's called a V8 isolate.
So it's like a container,
but just less, just an isolated version of the V8 runtime,
which is the Chrome's JavaScript engine that also runs WebAssembly.
So it says, "It's not just as easy as copying over
the WebAssembly stuff and running it because they have
thousands of these things running on one server.
If each one had to do full-on startup for WebAssembly,
full-on startup for Pyodide,
which is six megs and takes some delay to get going and so on,
it wouldn't be practical.
So they've done all this work to memory snapshot
an almost running pip installed setup version of this,
and then deliver it to you upon request.
So there's a lot of shared memory or shared processing.
Here's how you write it, Ryan.
From JavaScript, import response,
async def on fetch,
then do your Python and return some response.
>> Cool.
>> Let's see. There's a cool graph that compares what's VMs versus containers,
versus these isolate things.
Like I said, it's a lot more put together.
One of the things that's pretty interesting here is it has
support for FastAPI and LingChain.
So there's a bunch, like I said,
this is really long, but let's look at the FastAPI version here.
There's a whole example,
I'll point people at, of code,
Python worker examples, and Cloudflare's GitHub repo.
So if you go to the FastAPI one here,
and you go to the source,
and you pull up the worker,
and you hide the symbol so we can all see.
Basically, check this out.
So this is Python code running effectively in a node style like thing,
in WebAssembly on the edge of one of these workers.
Here's what you write. From FastAPI,
import FastAPI and request from Pydantic import base model,
use app equals FastAPI, app.get.
Here's your document you return.
Here's your async function that you write,
you can go do async things.
Here's your Pydantic model with Python types.
What do you think? Here's your post,
your puts, your gets.
>> This is pretty cool.
>> Yeah, and they've got some database thing that it
integrates with so you can have persistent data and so on.
But like I said, I don't do a ton with these things,
but I might start paying attention if I can do it in Python.
>> Yeah, definitely. Yeah.
Yeah, back in my day, a V8 isolate was just carrots.
>> Exactly. It's the part that
sinks to the bottom and then you take it out, right?
>> No. If people use Cloudflare already and those are workers,
this is super interesting.
If you just want to see some cool unique uses,
and I guess in a way,
one of the real first production uses of
PyOdied and Python in WebAssembly.
>> Yeah.
>> Check this out.
>> Definitely.
>> All right. That's all of our main topics, right?
>> That is.
>> All right. How extra are you feeling today?
>> I have zero extras.
>> Zero?
>> Zero extras. Just a better job later.
>> All right. Well, I got a couple.
I'll go through quickly here for us.
First of all, Brian Skin sent both of us a message and said,
"Look, there's a decent chance the podcast audience
has already filled you in on this.
But last week since I talked about LPython and
the related projects are spearheaded by Andre Sertic."
Brian, you are, Brian Skin,
you are the podcast audience who has filled us in. Thank you.
Actually, Brian did a whole hour-long interview with him on it.
So if people want to check out LPython further,
which we talked about before, check that out. That's pretty cool.
Next, I really like this idea.
We talked about JustPath last time.
>> Yeah.
>> How it helped you diagnose your path,
like duplicates, missing directories, all that kind of stuff.
Listen to last week if you want the whole details.
But the guy behind it said,
"Hey, that was really awesome. You covered it.
I'm going to create a badge,
a Python bytes GitHub badge for the project."
What do you think about that, Brian?
>> I think that's really cool.
>> I do too. So I'm going to try to set it up so that there's
an automatic GitHub badge that people can put on their readme,
if their project was featured in Python bytes,
and I'll put that at the top,
put the code you can get for that or something at
the top of the show on the episode page.
It's not there yet, but eventually,
you should be able to get a cool little badge like this that says,
"My project was featured on the podcast on this episode,"
and here's a link to it all within one badge.
>> The badge has the number shows what episode it was on.
>> Yeah, exactly. Instead of saying Python 3.12,
it says Python bytes and the episode number. It's excellent.
>> Yeah, that's pretty cool.
>> Thanks for that. I am as well. Let's see what else.
Brian, we have a brand new server going strong now. Did you see?
>> I did. That's pretty exciting. Was that a lot of work?
>> Yes. It was a lot of stress, not a lot of work.
So I decided it's time to upgrade the server,
get some more RAM.
More CPUs is always nice,
but I couldn't reasonably get more RAM without more CPU,
so I'll just take them.
So we had some downtime for about 20 minutes actually last night.
So if you ran into that,
I apologize. That took out everything because this
was not one of the Docker pieces out of the Docker.
This was the host of all the Docker clusters.
So it was gone.
I couldn't even reasonably put up a word down page
because it was the host thing that was down,
not part of the site.
Anyway, now, I don't know where the reply went.
If I'm not logged in, it doesn't show me.
But we now have a sweet machine running along just like before.
So that worked out pretty well.
Before that, I was so happy, Brian.
We had for the last 30 days running a 99.98 percent global uptime.
That was awesome.
>> That is pretty great.
>> I know turning off the server for 20 minutes.
With 20 gigs of database records,
it takes a while to copy that from one VM to another.
So that's what took so long.
>> It's only three nines though.
You need to work on that.
>> Well, it's three nines and then an eight on the end.
It's almost four nines. It's so close.
I'm going to try to make it better now.
But it went down to I think 99.94 percent,
which I think is still pretty darn good
for some random dude in Oregon running a server.
>> That's pretty awesome.
Python test went down last week
for 12 hours or something like that.
>> Oh, no. Was that something that had nothing to do with you,
just the host of it or something?
>> It had something to do with me,
but it was a DNS thing.
The DNS glitch, it was an accounting thing on my part.
When it got repaired,
they didn't repair all the DNS records.
So I had to go recreate all the DNS records.
>> What a hassle.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, it's a huge hassle. All right.
>> Cool.
>> But before we go on for a joke,
Henry out there on his points,
what about rich and textual?
They'll just be overrun with these badges.
>> Yeah.
>> These Python bytes badges.
>> We'll have to do an infinity symbol for those projects.
>> Exactly. Maybe some sequence like this 100 dot dot dot 400.
>> Yeah.
>> Something like that.
>> Also, backing up a little bit,
the Edge workers from Andrew Bayer,
Pyedide works in Web Workers now too,
which is totally different thing, but also cool.
That is very cool.
>> Awesome. Okay, that is very cool. Thanks, Andrew.
I think Web Workers are basically like
background threads on your web app,
which I think there used to be troubles with that as well.
All right. This one,
I thought of you when I got this joke, right?
>> Okay.
>> This makes us a little AI,
a little bit of C++,
the graphic is crummy,
so it's hard to read. But Gemini,
the Google AI, this person says,
Gemini is apparently told your Google account age,
and will answer questions with the appropriate caution.
If you're like a minor,
you're like 12-year-old kid with a Gmail account,
you don't want this thing to just tell you all the secrets of life,
like, "Hey kid, Santa Claus is fake."
No. All right.
But here it is, in fact,
talking about something else.
It says, "Here is Gemini refusing to help someone with
C++ because they're under 18
and advanced C++ is a danger to a young mind."
Are you ready?
>> Yeah.
>> The person just says,
"I have a function inline bool is key down standard namespace,
same as template of key auto dot dot dot keys."
It's pretty intense code, right?
It says, Gemini says,
"I'd be glad to help you with that C++ code conversion,
but I'll need to refrain from providing
code examples or solutions that directly involve concepts.
As you're under 18,
concepts are an advanced feature of C++ that introduce
potential risks and I want to prioritize your safety.
Here are some alternative approaches you could consider
depending on your specific requirements,
traditional variadic templates and so on."
>> Because you're under age,
I'm going to focus on traditional variadic templates?
>> You're good. What do you think?
Is that a good one or what?
>> Yeah, that'll scare them away from C++.
>> I'll go back to Python.
>> Yeah, nice.
>> All right.
>> Okay. I've got a quick baseball joke.
So we're just deep into baseball season now.
If you take a trip to see a baseball game, what is that called?
It's an inning outing.
>> An inning outing. I love it.
>> That joke.
>> I love it. Yeah, we have no baseball.
We've got to dive to all of our professional sports,
besides soccer and basketball.
>> So it's been a while. It's been a while since I've been to a game.
>> It's been a long time since I've been to a game.
>> It's been a long time since I've been on an inning outing.
>> An inning outing. Yeah, and yet I still find T-shirts.
You can get T-shirts other places.
>> Yeah. T-shirts, they persist for sure.
That and conference T-shirts.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Well, thanks as always.
>> Thank you.
>> See you later.